<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-5" id="chapter-5-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>“Miss Harding to see you, madam.”</p>
				<p>Nell started. Twenty-four hours had elapsed since her interview with Vernon. She had thought it was finished. And now Jane!</p>
				<p>She was afraid of Jane⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>She might refuse to see her.</p>
				<p>She said: “Show her up here.”</p>
				<p>It was more private up here in her own sitting-room⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>What a long time it was waiting. Had Jane gone away again? No⁠—here she was.</p>
				<p>She looked very tall. Nell cowered down on the sofa. Jane had a wicked face⁠—she had always thought so. There was a look on her face now as of an avenging fury.</p>
				<p>The butler left the room. Jane stood towering over Nell. Then she flung back her head and laughed.</p>
				<p>“Don’t forget to ask me to the christening,” she said.</p>
				<p>Nell flinched. She said haughtily:</p>
				<p>“I don’t know what you mean.”</p>
				<p>“It’s a family secret at present, is it? Nell, you damned little liar⁠—you’re not going to have a child. I don’t believe you ever will have a child⁠—too much risk and pain. What made you think of telling Vernon such a peculiarly damnable lie?”</p>
				<p>Nell said sullenly: “I never told him. He⁠—he guessed.”</p>
				<p>“That’s even more damnable.”</p>
				<p>“I don’t know what you mean coming here and⁠—and saying things like this.”</p>
				<p>Her protest sounded weak⁠—spiritless. For the life of her she couldn’t put the necessary indignation into it. With anyone else⁠—not with Jane. Jane had always been disagreeably clear-eyed. It was awful! If only Jane would go away.</p>
				<p>She rose to her feet, trying to sound decisive.</p>
				<p>“I don’t know why you have come here. If it is only to make a scene⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>“Listen, Nell. You’re going to hear the truth. You chucked Vernon once before. He came to me. Yes⁠—to me. He lived with me for three months. He was living with me when you came to my flat that day. Ah! that hurts you⁠ ⁠… You’ve still got a bit of raw womanhood left in you, I’m glad to see.</p>
				<p>“You took him from me then. He went to you and never gave me a thought. He’s yours now if you want him. But I tell you this, Nell, if you let him down a second time, he’ll come to me again. Oh, yes, he will. You’ve thought things about me in your mind⁠—turned up your nose at me as ‘a certain kind of woman.’ Well, because of that, perhaps, I’ve got power. I know more about men than you will ever learn. I can get Vernon if I want him. And I do want him. I always have.”</p>
				<p>Nell shuddered. She turned her face away, digging her nails into the palms of her hands.</p>
				<p>“Why do you tell me all this? You’re a devil.”</p>
				<p>“I tell it you to hurt you! To hurt you like Hell before it’s too late. No, you shan’t turn your head away. You shan’t shrink away from what I’m telling you. You’ve got to look at me and see⁠—yes, see⁠—with your eyes and your heart and your brain⁠ ⁠… You love Vernon with the last remaining corner of your miserable little soul⁠ ⁠… Think of him in my arms⁠—think of his lips on mine, of his kisses burning my body⁠ ⁠… Yes, you shall think of it⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>“Soon you won’t mind even that. But you mind now⁠ ⁠… Aren’t you enough of a woman to jib at handing over the man you love to another woman? To a woman you hate? A present for Jane with love from Nell⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>“Go away,” said Nell faintly. “Go away⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>“I’m going. It’s not too late⁠ ⁠… You can undo the lie you told.”</p>
				<p>“Go away⁠ ⁠… Go away⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>“Do it soon⁠—or you’ll never do it.” Jane paused at the door, looking back over her shoulder. “I came for Vernon’s sake⁠—not mine. I want him back. And I shall have him⁠ ⁠…” she paused, “unless⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>She went out.</p>
				<p>Nell sat with her hands clenched.</p>
				<p>She murmured fiercely, “She shan’t have him. She shan’t⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>She wanted Vernon. She wanted him. He had loved Jane once. He would love her again. What had she said? “… his lips on mine⁠ ⁠… his kisses burning my⁠ ⁠…” Oh, God, she couldn’t bear it. She started up⁠—moved towards the telephone.</p>
				<p>The door opened. She turned slowly. George came in. He looked very normal and cheerful.</p>
				<p>“Hullo, sweetheart.” He crossed the room and kissed her. “Here I am⁠—back again. A nasty crossing. I’d rather have the Atlantic than the Channel any day.”</p>
				<p>She had completely forgotten that George was coming home today! She couldn’t tell him this minute⁠—it would be too cruel. And besides it was so difficult⁠—to burst in with the tragic news in the middle of a flow of banalities. This evening⁠—later⁠ ⁠… In the meantime she would play her part.</p>
				<p>She returned his embrace mechanically, sat down and listened while he talked.</p>
				<p>“I’ve got a present for you, honey. Something that reminded me of you.”</p>
				<p>He took a velvet case from his pocket.</p>
				<p>Inside, on a bed of white velvet, lay a big rose-coloured diamond⁠—exquisite⁠—flawless, depending from a long chain. Nell gave a little gasp of pleasure.</p>
				<p>He lifted the jewel from the case and slipped the chain over her head. She looked down. The exquisite rose-coloured stone blinked up at her from its resting place between her breasts. Something about it hypnotized her.</p>
				<p>He led her to the glass. She saw a golden-haired beautiful woman, very calm and elegant. She saw the waved and shingled hair, the manicured hands, the foamy negligee of soft lace, the cobweb silk stockings and little embroidered mules. She saw the hard cold beauty of the rose-coloured diamond.</p>
				<p>And behind them she saw George Chetwynd⁠—kindly, generous, deliciously safe⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Dear George, she couldn’t hurt him⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Kisses⁠ ⁠… What, after all, were kisses? You needn’t think about them. Better not to think of them⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Vernon⁠ ⁠… Jane⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>She wouldn’t think of them. For good or evil she’d made her choice. There would be bad moments sometimes, but on the whole it would be for the best. Better for Vernon too. If she weren’t happy she couldn’t make him happy⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>She said gently: “You are a dear to bring me such a lovely present. Ring for tea. We’ll have it up here.”</p>
				<p>“That will be fine. But weren’t you going to telephone to someone? I interrupted you.”</p>
				<p>She shook her head.</p>
				<p>“No,” she said, “I’ve changed my mind.”</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Letters from Vernon Deyre to Sebastian Levinne</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<header role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Moscow.</p>
						<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear <span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Sebastian</span>⁠—</p>
					</header>
					<p>Do you know that there was once a legend in Russia that concerned a “nameless beast” that was coming?</p>
					<p>I mention this not because of any political significance (by the way, the Antichrist hysteria is curious, isn’t it?) but because it reminded me of my own terror of “The Beast.” I’ve thought about “The Beast” a great deal since coming to Russia⁠—trying to get at its true significance.</p>
					<p>Because there’s more in it than just being afraid of a piano. The doctor in London opened my eyes to a great many things. I’ve begun to see that all through my life I’ve been a coward. I think you’ve known that, Sebastian. You wouldn’t put it in that offensive way, but you hinted as much to me once. I’ve run away from things⁠ ⁠… Always I’ve run away from things.</p>
					<p>And thinking it all over now, I see The Beast as something symbolical⁠—not a mere piece of furniture composed of wood and wires. Don’t mathematicians say that the future exists at the same time as the past⁠—that we travel through time as we travel through space⁠—from a thing that is to another thing that is? Don’t some even hold that remembering is a mere habit of the mind⁠—that we could remember forward as well as back if we had only learnt the trick of it? It sounds nonsense when I say it⁠—but I believe there is some theory of that kind.</p>
					<p>I believe that there is some part of us that <em>does</em> know the future, that is always intimately aware of it.</p>
					<p>That explains, doesn’t it, why we should shrink sometimes. The burden of our destiny is going to be heavy and we recoil from its shadow⁠ ⁠… I tried to escape from music⁠—but it got me. It got me at that Concert⁠—in the same way that religion got those people at the Salvation Army meeting.</p>
					<p>It’s a devilish thing⁠—or is it god-like? If so it’s an Old Testament jealous God⁠—all the things I’ve tried to cling on to have been swept away. Abbots Puissants⁠ ⁠… Nell⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>And damn it all, what’s left? Nothing. Not even the cursed thing itself⁠ ⁠… I’ve no wish to write music. I hear nothing⁠—feel nothing⁠ ⁠… Will it ever come back? Jane says it will⁠ ⁠… She seems very sure. She sends her love to you by the way.</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p><span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Yours</span>,<br/>
						<span epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Vernon</span>.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<header role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Moscow.</p>
					</header>
					<p>You’re an understanding devil, Sebastian. You don’t complain that I ought to have written you a description of samovars, the political situation and life in Russia generally. The country, of course, is in a bloody muddle. What else could it be in? But it’s jolly interesting⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Love from Jane.</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Vernon.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-4" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<header role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Moscow.</p>
						<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear <span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Sebastian</span>⁠—</p>
					</header>
					<p>Jane was right to bring me here. Point <abbr>No.</abbr> 1, no one is likely to come across me here and joyously proclaim my resurrection from the dead. Point <abbr>No.</abbr> 2, this is about the most interesting place in the world to be from my point of view. A kind of free and easy laboratory where everyone is trying experiments of the most dangerous kind. The whole world seems concerned with Russia from a purely political point of view. Economics, starvation, morals, lack of liberty, diseased and decadent children⁠ ⁠… etc⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>But amazing things are sometimes born out of vice and filth and anarchy. The whole trend of Russian thought in art is extraordinary⁠ ⁠… part of it the most utter childish drivel you ever heard⁠—and yet wonderful gleams peeping through⁠—like shining flesh through a beggar’s rags⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>The “Nameless Beast”⁠ ⁠… Collective Man⁠ ⁠… Did you ever see that plan for a monument to the Communist Revolution? The Colossus of Iron? I tell you, it stirs the imagination.</p>
					<p>Machinery⁠—an Age of Machinery⁠ ⁠… How the Bolsheviks worship anything to do with machinery⁠—and how little they know about it! That’s why it’s so wonderful to them, I suppose. Imagine a real mechanic of Chicago composing a dynamic poem describing his city as “<q>built upon a screw! Electro dynamo mechanical city! Spiral shaped⁠—on a steel disc. At every stroke of the hour turning round itself⁠—Five thousand skyscrapers⁠ ⁠…</q>” Anything more alien from the spirit of America!</p>
					<p>And yet⁠—do you ever see a thing when you’re too close to it? It’s the people who don’t know machinery who see its soul and its meaning⁠ ⁠… The “Nameless Beast”⁠ ⁠… My Beast?⁠ ⁠… I wonder⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Collective Man⁠—forming himself in turn into a vast machine⁠ ⁠… The same herd instinct that saved the race of old coming out again in a different form⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Life’s becoming too difficult⁠—too dangerous⁠—for the individual. What was it Dostoevsky says in one of his books?</p>
					<p>
						<q>The flock will collect again and submit once more, and then it will be for ever, for ever. We will give them a quiet modest happiness.</q>
					</p>
					<p>Herd instinct⁠ ⁠… I wonder⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Yours</span>,<br/>
						<span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Vernon</span>.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-5" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<header role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Moscow.</p>
					</header>
					<p>I have found the other passage in Dostoevsky. I think it is the one you mean.</p>
					<p>“<q>And we alone, we who guard the mystery, we alone shall be unhappy. There will be thousands of millions of happy children and only a hundred thousand martyrs who have taken on themselves the curse of good and evil.</q>”</p>
					<p>You mean, and Dostoevsky meant, that there must always be individualists. It is the individualists who carry on the torch. Men welded into a vast machine must ultimately perish. For the machine is soulless and will end as scrap iron.</p>
					<p>Men worshipped stone and built Stonehenge⁠—and today, the men who built it have perished and are unknown and Stonehenge stands. And yet, by a paradox, the men are alive in you and me, their descendants, and Stonehenge and what it stood for, is dead. The things that die, endure, and the things that endure, perish.</p>
					<p>It is Man that goes on for ever. (Does he? Isn’t that unwarrantable arrogance? Yet we believe it!) And so, there must be individualists behind the Machine. So Dostoevsky says and so you say. But then you’re both Russians. As an Englishman I’m more pessimistic.</p>
					<p>Do you know what that passage from Dostoevsky reminds me of? My childhood. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green’s hundred children⁠—<em>and</em> Poodle, Squirrel and Tree. Representatives of the hundred thousand⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Yours</span>,<br/>
						<span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Vernon</span>.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-6" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<header role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Moscow.</p>
						<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear <span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Sebastian</span>⁠—</p>
					</header>
					<p>I suppose you’re right. I never have thought much before. It seemed to me an unprofitable exercise. In fact, I’m not sure I don’t still regard it as such.</p>
					<p>The trouble is, you see, that I can’t “say it in Music.” Damn it all, why <em>can’t</em> I say it in Music? Music’s my job. I’m more sure of that than ever. And yet⁠—nothing doing⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>It’s Hell⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:salutation">Vernon.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-7" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Sebastian⁠—</p>
					<p>Haven’t I mentioned Jane? What is there to say about her? She’s splendid. We both know that. Why don’t you write to her yourself?</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p><span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Yours ever</span>,<br/>
						<span epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Vernon</span>.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-8" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Old Sebastian⁠—</p>
					<p>Jane says you may be coming out here. I wish to God you would. I’m sorry I haven’t written for six months⁠—I never was one of the world’s ready letter writers.</p>
					<p>Have you seen anything of Joe? I’m glad Jane and I looked her up passing through Paris. Joe’s staunch⁠—she’ll never split on us, and I’m glad she at anyrate knows. We never write to each other, she and I, we never have⁠ ⁠… But I wondered if you’d heard anything. I didn’t think she looked awfully fit⁠ ⁠… Poor old Joe⁠—she’s made a mess of things⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Have you heard anything of Tatlin’s scheme for a monument to the Third International? To consist of a union of three great glass chambers connected by a system of vertical axes and spirals. By means of special machinery they were to be kept in perpetual motion but at different rates of speed.</p>
					<p>And inside, I suppose, they’d sing hymns to a Holy Acetylene blowpipe!</p>
					<p>Do you remember, one night, we were motoring back to town, and we took the wrong turning somewhere amongst the tram lines of Lewisham, and instead of making for the haunts of civilization we turned up somewhere among the Surrey docks, and through an opening in the frowsy houses we saw a queer kind of Cubist picture of cranes and cloudy steam and iron girders. And immediately your artistic soul bagged it for a drop scene⁠—or whatever the technical term is.</p>
					<p>My God, Sebastian! What a magnificent spectacle of machinery you could build up⁠—sheer effects and lighting⁠—and masses of humans with inhuman faces⁠—mass⁠—not individuals. You’ve something of the kind in mind, haven’t you?</p>
					<p>The architect, Tatlin, said something that I think good and yet a lot of nonsense.</p>
					<p>
						<q>“Only the rhythm of the metropolis, of factories and machines together with the organization of the masses can give the impulse to the new art⁠ ⁠…”</q>
					</p>
					<p>And he goes on to speak of the “monument of the machine,” the only adequate expression of the present.</p>
					<p>You know, of course, all about the modern Russian Theatre. That’s your job. I suppose Mayerhold is as marvellous as they say he is. But can one mix up Drama and Propaganda?</p>
					<p>All the same, it’s exciting to arrive at a theatre and be compelled at once to join a marching crowd⁠—up and down⁠—in strict step⁠—till the performance begins⁠—and the scenery⁠—composed of rocking chairs and cannons and revolving bays and God knows what! It’s babyish⁠—absurd⁠—and yet one feels that baby has got hold of a dangerous and rather interesting toy that in other hands⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p><em>Your</em> hands, Sebastian⁠ ⁠… You’re a Russian. But thank Heaven and Geography, no Propagandist⁠—just a Showman pure and simple⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p><em>The rhythm of the metropolis</em>⁠—made pictorial⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>My God⁠—if I could give you the Music⁠ ⁠… It’s the Music that’s needed.</p>
					<p>Lord⁠—their “Noise Orchestras”⁠—their symphonies of factory sirens! There was a show at Baku in 1922⁠—batteries of artillery⁠—machine-guns, choirs, naval fog horns. Ridiculous! Yes, but⁠—if they had a composer⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>No woman ever longed for a child like I long to produce Music⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>And I’m barren⁠—sterile⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Vernon.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-9" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Sebastian⁠—</p>
					<p>It seems like a dream your having come and gone⁠ ⁠… Will you really do <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Tale of the Rogue who outwitted Three Other Rogues</i>, I wonder?</p>
					<p>I’m only just beginning to recognize what a howling success you’ve made of things. I’ve at last grasped that you’re simply <strong>it</strong> nowadays. Yes, found your National Opera House⁠—God knows it’s time we had one⁠—but what do you want with Opera? It’s archaic⁠—dead ridiculous individual love affairs⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Music up to now seems to me like a child’s drawing of a house⁠—four walls⁠—a door, two windows and a chimney pot. There you are⁠—and what more do you want!</p>
					<p>At anyrate Feinberg and Prokofiev do more than that.</p>
					<p>Do you remember how we used to jeer at the “Cubists” and “Futurists”? At least I did⁠—now that I come to think of it I don’t believe you agreed.</p>
					<p>And then one day⁠—at a cinema⁠—I saw a view of a big city from the air. Spires turning over, buildings bending⁠—everything behaving as one simply knew concrete and steel and iron couldn’t behave! And for the first time I got a glimmering of what old Einstein meant when he talked about relativity.</p>
					<p>We don’t know anything about the shape of music⁠ ⁠… We don’t know anything about the shape of anything, for that matter⁠ ⁠… Because there’s always one side open to space⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Some day you’ll know what I mean⁠ ⁠… what Music can mean⁠ ⁠… what I’ve always known it meant⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>What a mess that opera of mine was. All opera is a mess. Music was never intended to be representational. To take a story and write descriptive music to it is as wrong as to write a passage of music⁠—in the abstract so to speak⁠—and then find an instrument capable of playing it! When Stravinsky wrote a clarinet passage, you can’t even conceive of it as being played by anything else!</p>
					<p>Music should be like mathematics⁠—a pure science⁠—untouched by drama, or romanticism, or any emotion other than the pure emotion which is the result of <em>sound</em> divorced from ideas.</p>
					<p>I’ve always known that in my heart⁠ ⁠… Music must be Absolute.</p>
					<p>Not, of course, that I shall realize my ideal. To create pure sound untouched by ideas is a counsel of perfection.</p>
					<p>My music will be the music of machinery. I leave the dressing of it to you. It’s an age of choreography, and choreography will reach heights we don’t as yet dream of. I can trust you with the visual side of my masterpiece as yet unwritten⁠—and which in all probability never will be written.</p>
					<p>Music must be four-dimensional⁠—timbre, pitch, relative speed and periodicity.</p>
					<p>I don’t think even now we appreciate Schönberg enough. That clean remorseless logic that is the spirit of today. He and he alone had the courage to disregard tradition⁠—to get down to bedrock, and discover Truth.</p>
					<p>He’s the one man to my mind who matters. Even his scheme of score writing will have to be adopted universally. It’s absolutely necessary if scores are going to be intelligible.</p>
					<p>The thing I have against him is his scorn of his instruments. He’s afraid of being a slave to them. He makes them serve him whether they will or no.</p>
					<p>I’m going to glorify my instruments⁠ ⁠… I’m going to give them what they want⁠—what they’ve always wanted⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Damn it all, Sebastian, <em>what is this strange thing, Music</em>? I know less and less⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Yours</span>,<br/>
						<span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Vernon</span>.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-10" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p>I know I haven’t written. I’ve been busy. Making experiments. Means of expression for the Nameless Beast. In other words, instrument making. Metals are jolly interesting⁠—I’m working with alloys just at present.</p>
					<p>What a fascinating thing sound is⁠ ⁠…</p>
					<p>Jane sends her love.</p>
					<p>In answer to your question⁠—No, I don’t suppose I shall ever leave Russia⁠—not even to attend at your newly planned opera house disguised in my beard!</p>
					<p>It’s even more barbarous and beautiful now than when you saw it! Full and flowing, the perfect temperamental Slav Beaver!</p>
					<p>But in spite of the forest camouflage, here I am and here I stay, till I am exterminated by one of the bands of wild children.</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Yours ever</span>,<br/>
						<span epub:type="z3998:recipient">Vernon</span>.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-5-4-11" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Telegram from Vernon Deyre to Sebastian Levinne</h3>
				<blockquote class="telegram" epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p>“Just heard Joe dangerously ill feared dying stranded in New York Jane and I sailing <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Resplendent</i> hope see you London.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
