<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-4" id="chapter-4-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
			<section id="chapter-4-4-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>In the town of A⁠⸺ in Holland⁠—not far from the German frontier⁠—is an inconspicuous inn. Here on a certain evening in 1917 a dark young man with a haggard face pushed open the door and in very halting Dutch asked for a lodging for the night. He breathed hard and his eyes were restless. Anna Schlieder, the fat proprietress of the inn, looked at him attentively up and down in her usual deliberate way before she replied. Then she told him that he could have a room. Her daughter Freda took him up to it. When she came back, her mother said laconically: “English⁠—escaped prisoner.”</p>
				<p>Freda nodded but said nothing. Her china-blue eyes were soft and sentimental. She had reasons of her own for taking an interest in the English. Presently she again mounted the stairs and knocked on the door. She went in on top of the knock which, as a matter of fact, the young man had not heard. He was so sunk in a stupor of exhaustion that external sounds and happenings had hardly any meaning for him. For days and weeks he had been on the qui vive, escaping dangers by a hairsbreadth, never daring to be caught napping either physically or mentally. Now he was suffering the reaction. He lay where he had fallen, half sprawling across the bed. Freda stood and watched him. At last she said:</p>
				<p>“I bring you hot water.”</p>
				<p>“Oh!” he started up. “I’m sorry. I didn’t hear you.”</p>
				<p>She said slowly and carefully in his own language:</p>
				<p>“You are English⁠—yes?”</p>
				<p>“Yes. Yes, that is⁠—”</p>
				<p>He stopped suddenly in doubt. One must be careful. The danger was over⁠—he was out of Germany. He felt slightly lightheaded. A diet of raw potatoes, dug up from the fields, was not stimulating to the brain. But he still felt he must be careful. It was so difficult⁠—he felt queer⁠—felt that he wanted to talk and talk, pour out everything now that at last that fearful long strain was over.</p>
				<p>The Dutch girl was nodding her head at him gravely, wisely.</p>
				<p>“I know,” she said. “You come from over there⁠—”</p>
				<p>Her hand pointed in the direction of the frontier.</p>
				<p>He looked at her, still irresolute.</p>
				<p>“You have escaped⁠—yes. We had before one like you.”</p>
				<p>A wave of reassurance passed over him. She was all right, this girl. His legs suddenly felt weak under him. He dropped down on the bed again.</p>
				<p>“You are hungry? Yes. I see. I go and bring you something.”</p>
				<p>Was he hungry? He supposed he was. How long was it since he had eaten? One day, two days? He couldn’t remember. The end had been like a nightmare⁠—just keeping blindly on. He had a map and a compass. He knew the place where he wanted to cross the frontier, the spot that seemed to him to offer the best chance. A thousand to one chances against him being able to pass the frontier⁠—but he had passed it. They had shot at him and missed. Or was that all a dream? He had swum down the river⁠—that was it⁠—No, that was all wrong, too. Well, he wouldn’t think about it⁠—he had escaped, that was the great thing.</p>
				<p>He leaned forward supporting his aching head in his hands.</p>
				<p>Very soon, Freda returned carrying a tray with food on it and a great tankard of beer. He ate and drank whilst she stood watching him. The effect was magical. His head cleared. He <em>had</em> been lightheaded, he realized that now. He smiled up at Freda.</p>
				<p>“That’s splendid,” he said. “Thanks awfully.”</p>
				<p>Encouraged by his smile, she sat down on a chair.</p>
				<p>“You know London?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, I know it.” He smiled a little. She had asked that so quaintly.</p>
				<p>Freda did not smile. She was in deadly earnest.</p>
				<p>“You know a soldier there? A what is it? Corporal Green?”</p>
				<p>He shook his head, a little touched.</p>
				<p>“I’m afraid not,” he said gently. “Do you know his regiment?”</p>
				<p>“It was a London regiment⁠—the London Fusiliers.”</p>
				<p>She had no further information than that. He said kindly: “When I get back to London, I’ll try to find out. If you like to give me a letter.”</p>
				<p>She looked at him doubtfully, yet with a certain air of trusting appeal. In the end the doubt was vanquished.</p>
				<p>“I will write⁠—yes,” she said.</p>
				<p>She rose to leave the room and said abruptly: “We have an English paper here⁠—two English papers here. My cousin brought them from the hotel. You would like to see them, yes?”</p>
				<p>He thanked her and she returned bringing a tattered <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Eve</i> and a <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Sketch</i> which she handed to him with some pride.</p>
				<p>When she left the room again, he laid down the papers by his side and lighted a cigarette⁠—his last cigarette! What would he have done without those cigarettes⁠—stolen at that! Perhaps Freda would bring him some⁠—he had money to pay for them. A kind girl, Freda, in spite of her thick ankles and an unprepossessing exterior.</p>
				<p>He took out a small notebook from his pocket. The pages were blank and he wrote in it: <q>Corporal Green, London Fusiliers</q>. He would do what he could for the girl. He wondered idly what story lay behind it. What had Corporal Green been doing in Holland in A⁠—? Poor Freda. It was the usual thing, he supposed.</p>
				<p>Green⁠—it reminded him of his childhood. <em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green.</em> The omnipotent delightful <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green⁠—his playfellow and protector. Funny, the things one thought of when one was a kid!</p>
				<p>He’d never told Nell about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green. Perhaps she’d had a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green of her own. Perhaps all children did.</p>
				<p>He thought: “Nell⁠—Oh, Nell⁠ ⁠…” and his heart missed a beat. Then he turned his thoughts resolutely away. Very soon now⁠ ⁠… Poor darling, what she must have suffered knowing him to be a prisoner in Germany. But that was all over now. Very soon now they’d be together. Very soon. Oh, he mustn’t think of it. The task in hand⁠—no looking forward.</p>
				<p>He picked up the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Sketch</i> and idly turned over the pages. A lot of new shows seemed to be on. What fun to go to a show again. Pictures of generals all looking very fierce and warlike. Pictures of people getting married. Not a bad-looking crowd. That one⁠—Why⁠—</p>
				<p>
					<em>It wasn’t true⁠—it couldn’t be true⁠ ⁠… Another dream⁠—a nightmare⁠ ⁠…</em>
				</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Vernon Deyre who is to marry <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Chetwynd. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Deyre’s first husband was killed in action over a year ago. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Chetwynd is an American who has done very valuable relief work in Serbia.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>Killed in action⁠—yes, he supposed that might be. In spite of all conceivable precautions mistakes like that <em>did</em> arise. A man Vernon knew had been reported killed. A thousandth chance, but it happened.</p>
				<p>Naturally, Nell would have believed⁠—and naturally, quite naturally, she would marry again.</p>
				<p>What nonsense he was talking! Nell⁠—marry again! So soon. Marry George⁠—<em>George</em> with his grey hair⁠—A sudden sharp pang shot through him. He had visualized George too clearly. Damn George⁠—blast and curse George.</p>
				<p>But it wasn’t true. No, it wasn’t true!</p>
				<p>He stood up, steadying himself as he swayed on his feet. To anyone who had seen him, he would have appeared a little drunk.</p>
				<p>He was perfectly calm⁠—yes, he was perfectly calm. The thing was not to believe⁠—not to think. Put it away⁠—right away. It wasn’t true⁠—it couldn’t be true⁠—if you once admitted that it might be true, you were done.</p>
				<p>He went out of his room, down the stairs. He passed the girl, Freda, who stared at him. He said very quietly and calmly (marvellous that he should be so calm!):</p>
				<p>“I’m going out for a walk.”</p>
				<p>He went out, oblivious of old Anna Schlieder’s eyes that raked his back as he passed her. The girl, Freda, said to her:</p>
				<p>“He passed me on the stairs like⁠—like⁠—what has happened to him?”</p>
				<p>Anna tapped her forehead significantly. Nothing ever surprised her.</p>
				<p>Out on the road Vernon was walking⁠—walking very fast. He must get away⁠—get away from the thing that was following him. If he looked round⁠—if he thought about it⁠—but he wouldn’t think about it.</p>
				<p>Everything was all right⁠—<em>everything</em>.</p>
				<p>Only he mustn’t think. This queer dark thing that was following him⁠—following him⁠ ⁠… If he didn’t think he was all right.</p>
				<p>Nell⁠—Nell with her golden hair and her sweet smile. His Nell. Nell and George⁠ ⁠… No, no, NO! It wasn’t so, he was in time.</p>
				<p>And suddenly, lucidly, there ran through his mind the thought, “That paper was six months old at least. They’ve been married five months.”</p>
				<p>He reeled. He thought, “I can’t bear it. No, this I can’t bear. Something must happen⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>He held on blindly to that: <em>Something must happen⁠ ⁠…</em></p>
				<p>Somebody would help him. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green. What was this awful thing that was dogging him? Of course, The Beast. The Beast.</p>
				<p>He could hear it coming. He gave one panic-stricken glance over his shoulder. He was out of the town now, walking on a straight road between dykes. The Beast was coming lumbering along at a great pace, rattling and bumping.</p>
				<p>The Beast⁠ ⁠… Oh! if only he could go back⁠—to The Beast and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green⁠—the old terrors, the old comforts. They didn’t hurt you like the new things⁠—like Nell and George Chetwynd. George⁠—Nell belonging to George⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>No⁠—No, it wasn’t true⁠—it mustn’t be true⁠—He couldn’t face any more. Not that⁠—not that⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>There was only one way to get out of it all⁠—to be at peace⁠—only one way⁠—Vernon Deyre had made a mess of life⁠—better to get out of it⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>One last flaming agony shot through his brain⁠—Nell⁠—George⁠—No! he thrust them out with a last effort. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green⁠—kind <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Green.</p>
				<p>He stepped out into the roadway right in the path of the lurching lorry that tried to avoid him too late⁠—and struck him down and backwards⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>
					<em>A horrible searing shock⁠—thank God, this was death⁠ ⁠…</em>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
